Owing to the COVID-19 global pandemic, there is a deficiency in the learning opportunities of university students---particularly first-year University of Toronto Engineering Science(N$\Psi$) students. This creates a demand for a solution to address the lack of interaction between students while completing coursework. Before the pandemic, students were able to combine academics and socialization by collaborating on day-to-day coursework. The current circumstances have deprived students of these opportunities to bond. Current barriers to sustained collaborative efforts include\footnote{Conjugations of "include" in this paper represent "include but not limited to" unless specified otherwise} discomfort with online socialization, inconvenience caused by differing schedules as a result of the nature of online learning, and nearly non-existent prior connections between first-year students. 
This brief provides context to the lack of interaction between first-year students while completing coursework, establishes requirements for potential solutions, and analyzes the deficiencies of existing solutions.

For this opportunity, the primary stakeholders are first-year N$\Psi$ Students. Considering other university students as potential stakeholders are outside the scope of this brief. Family, especially parents of the primary stakeholders, are likely to be impacted. Their interests are of secondary consideration. Finally, University of Toronto instructors are also secondary stakeholders. They primarily benefit from students who are more comfortable with each other and therefore more willing to interact in classes, for example, turning on cameras and actively participating in discussions. 

Finally---especially during a global pandemic---the health and safety of the stakeholders and their community are of utmost importance; thus, the community is the final stakeholder. All viable solutions must not significantly increase the risk of transmission of COVID-19 or jeopardize public safety in any other way.
This team is a subset of the primary stakeholders. Above all else, we must ensure the online security, physical and mental health of all stakeholders impacted by the design. Additional values that the design should include are collaboration, unity, and mutual dependability. As first-year students, we are well aware of the challenges that come with university and thus the specific need for a unified community where students can cooperate with and depend on one another.
A motive that has arisen as a direct result of online learning is that students have vastly differing schedules, complicating collaborative efforts. For example, asynchronous lectures promote independent learning rather than collaborative ventures. Furthermore, current online learning platforms have deficiencies regarding features developed for academically-focused collaboration, as demonstrated by the reference designs. Through observation, students decide to work alone rather than proactively work around these barriers.
The pandemic has impacted the ability of incoming first-year university students to form unified communities and gain a sense of membership among their peers\cite{bib:1}. Through observation of the first-year class, it is noted that a significant fraction enters university with scarce prior connections, unlike returning students. As a result, first-year students have low levels of familiarity with their classmates, which leads to less critical and exploratory group norm perceptions as well as more negative perceptions of online communication and collaboration\cite{bib:21}. 
N$\Psi$ students have a vested interest in creating a stronger sense of community. Through conversations with many upper-year students, it is a common sentiment that a strong sense of community---especially in N$\Psi$---is of paramount importance. Specifically, one individual said,
Therefore, there is a necessity for fostering an environment that promotes mutual dependability where every individual can learn from and rely on other like-minded individuals \cite{bib:3}\cite{bib:4}.

Due to the decreasing interactions between peers caused by online learning, loneliness has developed into a major concern. Richardson’s research demonstrates that loneliness contributes to greater anxiety, stress, depression, and worse general mental health over time. Thus, this opportunity should reduce loneliness to improve mental health\cite{bib:7}.
The interests of other students are outside the scope of this brief; however, it can be reasonably assumed that the experiences of other students studying elsewhere are similar to students studying N$\Psi$. 

In addition to the primary stakeholders, family---especially parents---have an interest in their relative’s or children’s well-being and academic success. The qualifier is that parents want their children to do well academically, but not at the cost of poor mental health or dissatisfaction with their university experience. The full-time employed population in September 2020 is still 96 per-cent as of September 2019\cite{bib:9}; therefore, many parents are still working—either online or even in person. These stakeholders would prefer to avoid unnecessary expenses and effort---like travel, especially if those investments produce little return. Some parents may prefer that their adult children move out in a reasonable period. A support network of peers for their children instills confidence in the parents that their children are well-equipped for relative independence.
University of Toronto instructors want their students to succeed, both academically and as individuals. Additionally, they want students to develop into a close group that strengthens the entire N$\Psi$ community. However, instructors would prefer to spend less time addressing questions that can easily be answered by other students, as it is not the most effective use of their time. Furthermore, many instructors also have their research to perform. This year, there are many questions addressed to the instructors on Piazza\textsuperscript{\textcopyright} that can be---and indeed are---easily answered by peers (See Figure 1). However, because the impact of students collaborating has minimal impact on the instructors themselves and it is difficult for the impact on the instructors to be evaluated, their motives are not explicitly considered.
From the analysis of the stakeholder background and motives, the following objectives are formed.
Especially during a global pandemic, the solution must consider the health and safety of all individuals. Solutions must be designed for safety as other objectives are irrelevant if physical safety is compromised. Additionally, the mental health of students must be prioritized, similar to all other safety considerations.

For physical safety, the guidelines from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention\cite{bib:13} are used to inform the development of this requirement.
Time spent in high-risk areas (hours per week): in the current situation is COVID-19, high-risk areas include indoor areas that compromise social distancing, dense population centers, and other similar areas \cite{bib:13}. Solutions must not jeopardize the physical health of any stakeholders.
Personal protective equipment(P.P.E.) that the participants wear during in-person interactions with others.
Changes in the average score on the Perceived Stress Scale(P.S.S.)\cite{bib:18} following the implementation of the solution.
Less time spent in high-risk areas is better.
A negative P.S.S. delta shows a decrease in stress and an improvement in mental health following any implementations, which is preferred.
Must not violate local government's regulations in response to the pandemic like distancing, group size, and travel restrictions.
Should not cause an average increase in the P.S.S.
If face-to-face meetups are involved in the solution, the use of an approved P.P.E. listed in Table 2 in the World Health Organization's \textit{COVID-19 Technical Specifications for P.P.E.} standards\cite{bib:14} must be used.
The cybersecurity of either a solution or a service used for a solution must be considered to both prevent breaches of data, misuse of privilege, and facilitate an environment where individuals feel safe and comfortable communicating. The design for security is considered using the ECESM2.4 Cyber Security Handbook\cite{bib:19}. There are no criteria as the solution must be robust enough to prevent all reasonable attacks; these are constraints.
Method of storage, access, and distribution of data required for the solution including text messaging, Internet Protocol addresses, images, and video.
All data from the implementation stored on personal (including personally owned cloud services, e.g. A.W.S.). university (including university-owned cloud services, e.g. A.W.S.) must be encrypted. (modified from ECESM2.4§2.1.6).
No individuals should have access to privileged information, regardless of if an existing service is used or a proprietary one is developed (modified from ECESM2.4§2.1.2).
If the solution uses a proprietary server or network rather than existing services, a vulnerability scanner (such as Nmap, Nessus, or OpenVAS) must be used to help protect against attacks (from ECESM2.4§3.1).
Currently, there exist two main categories of communication barriers: a lack of prior connections with other first-year students leading to discomfort with online socialization, and a lack of features for effective online collaboration. A solution that helps students collaborate will lead to more effective learning for students, relieving a significant amount of unnecessary burden on the instructors such as when students can answer many of each other's questions and learn from each other.
The change in familiarity among first-year students following the implementation of the solution. Measured by a survey adapted from "Exposure effects in the classroom: The development of affinity among students". \cite{bib:22} The survey must measure familiarity and similarity. The final measure of similarity must be modified to measure how effectively a subject thinks they can collaborate with their peers, for example by asking subjects to assess how effectively they will be able to collaborate with their peers.
The technological functionality of the implementation regarding academic collaborative tools, whether it uses an existing platform or develops a proprietary solution(rubric).
A higher positive delta of similarity, familiarity, and how effectively a subject thinks that they can collaborate with their peers is better.
Inadequate & Solution contain little-to-no features developed to facilitate academic collaboration.\\
        \hline
        Poor & Solution contains similar functionality compared to reference designs or utilizes existing designs without improvement.\\ 
        \hline
        Fair & Solution introduces better functionality and/or integration than existing designs, although with minor issues.\\
        \hline
        Excellent & Solution provides all tools necessary for seamless, integrated collaborative efforts.\\ 
 The solution should not offer inferior functionality regarding academically-focused collaboration than current reference designs.
The solution needs to improve the relationships between students to facilitate collaborative efforts. Thus, Design for Quality of the peers' interactions is considered. The quality can be measured through the change in the strength of the sense of community felt by students following an implementation through the Sense of Community Index 2 (SCI-2)\cite{bib:16}.
\item
        Change in the SCI-2 after the implementation of the solution.
    \item 
        Impact on efficiency and effectiveness of collaboration on academic work(rubric). An ideal solution should benefit the students in an academic sense.
 \rowcolor{lightgray} \multicolumn{2}{|c|}{Rubric II: Impact on Academic Work}\\
        \hline
        Inadequate & Solution negatively impacts the quality of the schoolwork of students.\\
        \hline
        Poor & Solution has no discernible impact on the quality of the schoolwork of students.\\ 
        \hline
        Fair & Solution helps develop an environment where students are comfortable relying on each other for academic help.\\
        \hline
        Excellent & Solution fosters an environment highly conducive to proactive collaborative work to gain valuable insights.\\ 
Specific technical features of a particular design are difficult to describe objectively due to their diversity; however, reference designs clearly demonstrate the existence of certain features along with their respective benefits and drawbacks. 
A current attempt to bring incoming first-year students together was through the creation of Discord\textsuperscript{\textcopyright} servers, more specifically the “EngSci 2T4” server. This student led initiative was put into place during the summer before the 2020 school year to create a common social media platform on which incoming first-year N$\Psi$ students at UofT could meet each other. 

This server has been very valuable in establishing a platform that allows students from all over the world to communicate and interact on a common server. The server is easily accessible and has had tremendous outreach bringing together 283\footnote{Based on self reported roles on the server. Some students may not have reported and some students may have multiple accounts.}/349 first-year N$\Psi$ students. When school started, the relationships that were developed between the students over the summer allowed them to be able to work together and seek out help/clarification for all their coursework, showing the importance of pre-existing relationships. Another positive of the Discord\textsuperscript{\textcopyright} server was its ability to connect first-year students with upper year students. This provided the students in the server the ability to ask questions regarding school and university life which greatly eased the stress associated with going into your first-year of university. 

However, one major limitation of the Discord\textsuperscript{\textcopyright} servers is that it presents very little opportunity for newer incoming members to feel as welcomed, consequently making them less inclined to use the server as a method through which they can get to know new people. This trend is obvious from the \textit{EngSci 2T4} as there is a large discrepancy in the number of active users and the number of people in the first-year N$\Psi$ class in the server (See Figure 4
Within the N$\Psi$ program, courses such as PHY180, ESC103, and ESC101 use Zoom\textsuperscript{\textcopyright} to hold interactive tutorials, where students have the opportunity to work in small groups. One of the positives of these tutorials is that it allows students to collaboratively work on class material. Since these tutorials are run on a set schedule, it offers a recurring opportunity to work with the same people every week and overcomes the barrier of inconvenience stemming from differing individual schedules.

There is limited specialized functionality designed for academic work; for example, the whiteboard functionality within Zoom\textsuperscript{\textcopyright} is small, laggy, and lacks functionality such as the ability to save boards. This deficiency is highlighted when TAs of certain courses elect to use distinct platforms such as JamBoard rather than Zoom's integrated whiteboard. Additionally, online whiteboards are difficult to write on without the use of tablet or large touchscreen device. Common smartphones and computers that most students are likely to own as per the minimum requirements are generally insufficient for extensive online whiteboard usage.

\subsection{On-Campus Library Study Sessions}
Students who currently reside within Toronto have the opportunity to travel to campus libraries and complete coursework collaboratively in-person. The key advantages of such study sessions include ease of communication and collaboration, more effective relationship building leading to a stronger sense of community, and no technology prerequisites.

In the current circumstances, safety is a paramount issue, and regular in-person study sessions compound the problems associated with COVID-19 as they happen indoors and in close proximity, creating dangers for large groups of students and those they interact with. These study sessions are also only available for the relatively small subset of students who live on or close to campus and can afford the costs of transportation.
feature
